---
layout: post
title: Generalist Developer Curriculum
summary: What every web developer should know
---

This is a take off "What CS Majors Should Know" and "Teach Yourself Programming in Ten Years"
http://matt.might.net/articles/what-cs-majors-should-know/
http://www.mindmeister.com/151175205
http://norvig.com/21-days.html

Concerns:
To get a good job
Become a very productive and pragmatic developer

I'll revise this as my interests change, time permitting. This is more of a self-study guide for the things that seem important at the time.

Build a portfolio and track record of projects.

Programming Languages
I know Ruby pretty decently. I'd like to become fluent in Javascript, CoffeeScript, and a functional language like Scala or Haskell. 
TDD an API wrapper
contribute to rails
SICP

Javascript
JavaScript: The Definitive Guide by Flanagan
The Good Parts Douglas Crockford
Effective JavaScript: 68 Specific Ways to Harness the Power of JavaScript by Herman.
JSHint

Unix
write simple shell scripts.
navigate and manipulate the filesystem
edit a file with vim

System Admin
I want to know how to deal with server issues, and be comfortable working in the linux environment.
Debug server problems.
install and administer linux distro
troubleshoot a connection with dig, ping, traceroute
compile and configure a webserver like apache
maintain a website with a text editor

Databases
postgresql
mongodb
couchdb
SQL and Relational Theory by Date

Fundamentals
Data Structures - go through and implement all data structures in ruby
Algorithms - go through the greatest hits, implementing in Ruby. hash table, linked list, tree, binary search trees, directed and undirected graphs
CLRS
Discrete Math - trees, graphs, formal languages, automata
Theory - finite-state automata, regex, pushdown automata, context-free languages, formal grammars, Turing machines, lambda calculus, undecidability,
the difference between P, NP, NP-Hard, NP-Complete
make a compiler
make a programming language

Security
social engineering
buffer overflow
integer overflow
code injection vulnerabilities
race conditions
privilige confusion
Metasploit: The Penetration Tester's Guide by Kennedy, O'Gorman, Kearns and Aharoni

Cryptography
symmetric-key cryptosystems
public-key cryptosystems
secure hash functions
challenge-response authentication
digital signature algorithms
threshold cryptosystems

Linear Algebra
Machine Learning
Artificial Intelligence
